README.md, before:

# WoW POV Uploader

An automated YouTube uploader for World of Warcraft POV (Point of View) videos. This script monitors a folder for new video files and automatically uploads them to YouTube with compression and proper naming conventions.

// Trying to vibecode a way to automatically upload my raid POVs captured using Warcraft Recorder to YouTube + any other easily accessible platform. The goal is to have the video files Wacraft Recorder saves locally be automatically/periodically uploaded, compressed, orgranized into easily navigable playlists.

// to do:
- [x] create github repo for project [gh repo create wow-pov-uploader --public --source=. --remote=origin --push]
- [ ] add ability to sync with Google Drive folder
- [ ] add a way to compress the videos (using ffmpeg, detailed by ai later on in this doc)
- [ ] integrate with Google Console API, install dependencies, set up credentials.json
- [ ] clean up remaining ai slop in repo after review - want to be simple & functional, try to improve/interate over time. 
- [ ] add a way to organize the videos into playlists, improve naming conventions, clean up in general


## Features

- 🎮 **Automated Upload**: Monitors a folder for new MP4 files and uploads them automatically
- 📹 **Video Compression**: Uses FFmpeg to compress videos for optimal upload size
- 🏷️ **Smart Naming**: Automatically generates descriptive filenames with timestamps
- 📁 **Google Drive Sync**: Optional integration to sync videos to Google Drive
- 🎵 **Playlist Support**: Automatically adds videos to specified YouTube playlists
- 📊 **Progress Tracking**: Real-time upload progress and comprehensive logging
- 🔒 **Secure**: Uses OAuth2 for YouTube API authentication

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- FFmpeg installed and in your system PATH
- Google Cloud Console project with YouTube Data API v3 enabled
- YouTube channel for uploading videos

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/wow-pov-uploader.git
cd wow-pov-uploader
```

2. Install required dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Install FFmpeg:
   - **Windows**: Download from [FFmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) or use `winget install ffmpeg`
   - **macOS**: `brew install ffmpeg`
   - **Linux**: `sudo apt install ffmpeg` (Ubuntu/Debian)

## Setup

### 1. Google Cloud Console Setup

1. Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Create a new project or select an existing one
3. Enable the YouTube Data API v3
4. Create credentials (OAuth 2.0 Client ID) for a desktop application
5. Download the credentials file and save it as `credentials.json` in the project root

### 2. Configuration

Edit the configuration section in `youtube_uploader.py`:

```python
# ---------- CONFIG ----------
WATCH_FOLDER = r"C:\Path\To\WarcraftRecorder"  # Folder to monitor for videos
DRIVE_SYNC_FOLDER = r"C:\Users\You\GoogleDrive\RaidVideos"  # Optional Google Drive sync
COMPRESS = True   # Enable video compression
YOUTUBE_PLAYLIST_ID = None  # Set to playlist ID for automatic sorting
```

### 3. First Run

1. Place your `credentials.json` file in the project directory
2. Run the script:
```bash
python youtube_uploader.py
```

3. On first run, you'll be prompted to authenticate with Google
4. A browser window will open for OAuth authentication
5. After authentication, a `token.json` file will be created for future runs

## Usage

1. Start the script:
```bash
python youtube_uploader.py
```

2. The script will monitor the configured folder for new MP4 files
3. When a new video is detected:
   - File is backed up
   - Video is compressed (if enabled)
   - Video is uploaded to YouTube as "unlisted"
   - Video is optionally synced to Google Drive
   - Original backup is removed after successful upload

## Configuration Options

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `WATCH_FOLDER` | Folder to monitor for new videos | Required |
| `DRIVE_SYNC_FOLDER` | Google Drive folder for sync (optional) | None |
| `COMPRESS` | Enable FFmpeg compression | True |
| `YOUTUBE_PLAYLIST_ID` | YouTube playlist ID for auto-sorting | None |

## Video Compression

The script uses FFmpeg with optimized settings for gaming content:
- Video codec: H.264 (libx264)
- Quality: CRF 23 (good balance of quality/size)
- Resolution: Scales to 1080p if needed
- Audio: AAC 128kbps
- Optimized for web streaming

## File Naming

Videos are automatically renamed using the format:
```
Raid_YYYY-MM-DD_HH-MM.mp4
```

## Logging

The script creates detailed logs in `youtube_uploader.log` including:
- File detection events
- Upload progress
- Error messages
- Success confirmations

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"FFmpeg not found"**
   - Ensure FFmpeg is installed and in your system PATH
   - Test with: `ffmpeg -version`

2. **"credentials.json not found"**
   - Download OAuth credentials from Google Cloud Console
   - Save as `credentials.json` in the project directory

3. **Upload fails**
   - Check your internet connection
   - Verify YouTube API quota limits
   - Check the log file for detailed error messages

4. **File not detected**
   - Ensure the watch folder path is correct
   - Check that files are .mp4 format
   - Verify folder permissions

## Security Notes

- Never commit `credentials.json` or `token.json` to version control
- These files contain sensitive authentication information
- The `.gitignore` file is configured to exclude these files

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is open source. Feel free to modify and distribute according to your needs.

## Support

For issues and questions:
1. Check the troubleshooting section
2. Review the log files
3. Create an issue on GitHub with detailed information

---

**Note**: This tool is designed for personal use with your own YouTube channel. Ensure you have the right to upload the content and comply with YouTube's Terms of Service.

Commit message:

Add prominent GitHub Codespaces deployment links to README

README.md, after:

# WoW POV Uploader

An automated YouTube uploader for World of Warcraft POV (Point of View) videos. This script monitors a folder for new video files and automatically uploads them to YouTube with compression and proper naming conventions.

[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/gandolfoni/wow-pov-uploader)

// Trying to vibecode a way to automatically upload my raid POVs captured using Warcraft Recorder to YouTube + any other easily accessible platform. The goal is to have the video files Wacraft Recorder saves locally be automatically/periodically uploaded, compressed, orgranized into easily navigable playlists.

// to do:
- [x] create github repo for project [gh repo create wow-pov-uploader --public --source=. --remote=origin --push]
- [ ] add ability to sync with Google Drive folder
- [ ] add a way to compress the videos (using ffmpeg, detailed by ai later on in this doc)
- [ ] integrate with Google Console API, install dependencies, set up credentials.json
- [ ] clean up remaining ai slop in repo after review - want to be simple & functional, try to improve/interate over time. 
- [ ] add a way to organize the videos into playlists, improve naming conventions, clean up in general


## Features

- 🎮 **Automated Upload**: Monitors a folder for new MP4 files and uploads them automatically
- 📹 **Video Compression**: Uses FFmpeg to compress videos for optimal upload size
- 🏷️ **Smart Naming**: Automatically generates descriptive filenames with timestamps
- 📁 **Google Drive Sync**: Optional integration to sync videos to Google Drive
- 🎵 **Playlist Support**: Automatically adds videos to specified YouTube playlists
- 📊 **Progress Tracking**: Real-time upload progress and comprehensive logging
- 🔒 **Secure**: Uses OAuth2 for YouTube API authentication

## 🚀 Quick Start

**One-click deployment with GitHub Codespaces:**

[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/gandolfoni/wow-pov-uploader)

1. Click the "Open in GitHub Codespaces" button above
2. Wait 2-3 minutes for the environment to set up
3. Upload your `credentials.json` file
4. Configure your watch folder path
5. Run `python youtube_uploader.py`

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- FFmpeg installed and in your system PATH
- Google Cloud Console project with YouTube Data API v3 enabled
- YouTube channel for uploading videos

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/wow-pov-uploader.git
cd wow-pov-uploader
```

2. Install required dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Install FFmpeg:
   - **Windows**: Download from [FFmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) or use `winget install ffmpeg`
   - **macOS**: `brew install ffmpeg`
   - **Linux**: `sudo apt install ffmpeg` (Ubuntu/Debian)

## Setup

### 1. Google Cloud Console Setup

1. Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Create a new project or select an existing one
3. Enable the YouTube Data API v3
4. Create credentials (OAuth 2.0 Client ID) for a desktop application
5. Download the credentials file and save it as `credentials.json` in the project root

### 2. Configuration

Edit the configuration section in `youtube_uploader.py`:

```python
# ---------- CONFIG ----------
WATCH_FOLDER = r"C:\Path\To\WarcraftRecorder"  # Folder to monitor for videos
DRIVE_SYNC_FOLDER = r"C:\Users\You\GoogleDrive\RaidVideos"  # Optional Google Drive sync
COMPRESS = True   # Enable video compression
YOUTUBE_PLAYLIST_ID = None  # Set to playlist ID for automatic sorting
```

### 3. First Run

1. Place your `credentials.json` file in the project directory
2. Run the script:
```bash
python youtube_uploader.py
```

3. On first run, you'll be prompted to authenticate with Google
4. A browser window will open for OAuth authentication
5. After authentication, a `token.json` file will be created for future runs

## Usage

1. Start the script:
```bash
python youtube_uploader.py
```

2. The script will monitor the configured folder for new MP4 files
3. When a new video is detected:
   - File is backed up
   - Video is compressed (if enabled)
   - Video is uploaded to YouTube as "unlisted"
   - Video is optionally synced to Google Drive
   - Original backup is removed after successful upload

## Configuration Options

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `WATCH_FOLDER` | Folder to monitor for new videos | Required |
| `DRIVE_SYNC_FOLDER` | Google Drive folder for sync (optional) | None |
| `COMPRESS` | Enable FFmpeg compression | True |
| `YOUTUBE_PLAYLIST_ID` | YouTube playlist ID for auto-sorting | None |

## Video Compression

The script uses FFmpeg with optimized settings for gaming content:
- Video codec: H.264 (libx264)
- Quality: CRF 23 (good balance of quality/size)
- Resolution: Scales to 1080p if needed
- Audio: AAC 128kbps
- Optimized for web streaming

## File Naming

Videos are automatically renamed using the format:
```
Raid_YYYY-MM-DD_HH-MM.mp4
```

## Logging

The script creates detailed logs in `youtube_uploader.log` including:
- File detection events
- Upload progress
- Error messages
- Success confirmations

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"FFmpeg not found"**
   - Ensure FFmpeg is installed and in your system PATH
   - Test with: `ffmpeg -version`

2. **"credentials.json not found"**
   - Download OAuth credentials from Google Cloud Console
   - Save as `credentials.json` in the project directory

3. **Upload fails**
   - Check your internet connection
   - Verify YouTube API quota limits
   - Check the log file for detailed error messages

4. **File not detected**
   - Ensure the watch folder path is correct
   - Check that files are .mp4 format
   - Verify folder permissions

## Security Notes

- Never commit `credentials.json` or `token.json` to version control
- These files contain sensitive authentication information
- The `.gitignore` file is configured to exclude these files

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is open source. Feel free to modify and distribute according to your needs.

## Support

For issues and questions:
1. Check the troubleshooting section
2. Review the log files
3. Create an issue on GitHub with detailed information

---

**Note**: This tool is designed for personal use with your own YouTube channel. Ensure you have the right to upload the content and comply with YouTube's Terms of Service.
